I develop with other colleagues criteria on how to perform surgery without blood transfusion
in case of believer transplant, or in case of kidney transplant.
And we have also come up with plans how to perform surgery, liver reduction, for example,
without blood transfusion.
There are several issues to take into consideration.
The number one should be how a surgeon is approaching a widest patient in the situation
to perform a potential complex surgery.
And the mental attitude should be the one to say this patient, like every other, needs
a procedure that will be eventually be curative.
This should be the second approach.
Being aware that most of the time a very competent surgeon does not use blood, so that should
give the surgeon the reasonable confidence that he can perform the surgery without blood.
The third point is that, of course, the surgeon should use criteria on which patient
he can definitely perform a surgery without blood transfusion at all.
I don't think we can make a differentiation on religion ground.
There are even patients that are not with us that don't want blood transfusion.
Besides, transfusion is not always a treatment.
It's ancillary support to be provided to the patient while he's receiving the correct
procedure.
If I can do a complex procedure on a widest patient, preparing him with a nice protocol of
blood growth factor.
And then having a judicious infusion of fluids after the procedure, and so I can avoid blood
transfusion on this patient, I can use the same modes for all the other.
Everybody can take an advantage of that.